layout: post
title:  "SW Hendrix Odyssey Project Reflection"
date:   2021-12-7 8:07:21 -0500
author: Isaac Khounborine
categories: jekyll update
---

My experience was this project was wholly unique from work or projects
I have worked on in the past. Never have I worked with teammates to
collectively create a product that would be used publicly. Some skills
and talent that were valuable in working with our community partner in
making social change was communication, work ethic, teamwork, and competency.
These skills and talents allowed my team and I to create a product we and our
community partner would be proud of and yet can still be improved upon. The
limitations I knew I would have going into this, being lack of skillful
communication and teamwork were improved upon as well as supported by my
teammates. Where I could not communicate with our community partner effectively,
another teammate took up the role to do so. I had not worked with a team before
on a project such as this; however, over the course of the project, I have
learned to better work as a team and communicate effectively between each other.
We worked as a team and communicated as a team, but when it came to actually
doing things that would contribute to the project, there were some times I had
to take initiative to ensure the others would begin their work as well.

The Social need of this Odyssey Project is approached well by our community
partner, for there is no better way to promote an event than creating a website
for it. It is also effective in that it creates an event that will be socially
available to any and all people related to Hendrix to attend. This Solar Eclipse
Celebrations seeks to bring the whole community of Hendrix and Conway together in
celebration of an astronomical phenomenon.

I find that none of my fundamental values, social ideals, or significant beliefs
have been challenged from this experience. I am a pretty open person when it comes
to such values, beliefs or ideals, and this experience simply did nothing to affect
that. Perhaps the idea that I working in groups is a hassle has been challenged,
since my group has worked pretty efficiently and well together. I could interpret
it as being the fact that a group all highly interested in this field of work and
knowledge working together we would create a well working product. Of course, the
academic coursework of working towards a Computer Science degree has impacted my
understanding of the project. To understand this project and how to do it, one
has to know a lot about how websites and databases work; which, Database and Web
Systems has done to complete success. I would not say I could challenge any of the
ideas from that class after completing this project. The class and project go
hand-in-hand to fulfill the needs of the project.

If I were to say anything about how this experience reshaped my views on public
issues that could call me to action, it would most likely be ones of social issues
regarding the insecurity of databases or the failure of insecure websites leaking
data of users or clients. Many a time I have seen websites, databases, and apps
fail to be secure and causing trouble for hundreds of thousands of users. With more
knowledge and experience, one day I should be able to be on the forefront to
resolve these major problems. Not to mention, the internet and technology continuing
to be a larger and larger part of our lives, it is indicative that I put myself ahead
of the curve to the larger public in knowledge of new technology to prevent its
misuse.

What I have done in this experience has changed me for the better, allowing me to
be a better team player on group work. To say my thoughts on the project, I feel
that its creation will bring improvements to social and communal involvement of the
Hendrix space. While small in the greater picture of the world, it has been a step
in the right direction, for me and for the world.
